# Plugins

This composite module houses the gradle plugins that are used in all the SDKs in this repo; to 
assist in a number of monotonous tasks. You can read more on these plugins and the tasks they 
create below.

## ChangelogPlugin

Creates and manages changelog files. These files are used to signify changes made to a project that 
should invoke a release, alongside text to display in the release notes at release time.

Change files are (by default) created under the `.changes` directory at the root of the repo. They
are then further filtered into sub directories according to the project name. These files are json 
encoded variants of a [Changelog](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/types/Changelog.kt) instance- 
which is just an organization of what impact the change had (will it invoke a patch, minor, or 
major bump?) and an (optional) end-user readable message to show alongside the other changes at 
release time. By default, the files are saved as a random sequence of four words (to avoid 
collisions).

During a release cycle, the `.changes` directory will be filled with change files. When it comes to 
release time, these changes will be combined into a single `release_notes.md` file that contains 
all the changes made- in a consumable format. After a release, the `.changes` directory will be 
wiped, and the cycle will continue.

To assist in this endeavour, the ChangelogPlugin registers an internal plugin and a few tasks:

### APIPlugin

An internal plugin (automatically added, and cannot be explicitly applied) that facilitates the 
generation of `.api` files.

#### Tasks

The APIPlugin registers the two following tasks to facilitate this process:

- [buildApi](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/plugins/ApiPlugin.kt) -> Creates a `.api` file 
containing the public API of the project.
- [exportApi](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/plugins/ApiPlugin.kt) -> Exports the `.api` file 
generated by the `buildApi` task to a file at the project directory named `public.api`.

### Tasks

The ChangelogPlugin registers the five following tasks:

- [findChanges](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/FindChangesTask.kt) -> Creates a new `.api` 
file for the current project, and compares it to the latest `.api` file in the root `api` directory- 
to create a diff of changes made to the public api.
- [makeChange](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/MakeChangeTask.kt) -> Creates a new `.json` 
file in the root `.changes` directory (under the subdirectory for this project) with an optional 
message, including the version impact inferred from `findChanges`.
- [warnAboutApiChanges](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/WarnAboutApiChangesTask.kt) -> If 
`findChanges` finds changes that will have version implications, this task will create a 
markdown file corresponding to the project's name in the root project's build directory under 
`api_changes`, with a message to display to the developer regarding what they changed, and the 
impact it will have on the public API. If no public API changes are found, this task will just skip 
itself.
- [deleteChangeFiles](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/MakeReleaseNotesTask.kt) -> Deletes 
all the change files in the `.changes` directory, intended to be used after the release notes have 
been created- or otherwise during a cleanup stage of the release.
- [makeReleaseNotes](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/MakeReleaseNotesTask.kt) -> Creates a 
markdown file corresponding to the project's name in the root project's build directory under
`release_notes`, containing a collection of all the changes in the `.changes` directory; including 
the new project version at the top of file (inferred from the highest impact change).

## LicensePlugin

Handles the checking and adding of license headers to the top of all source files.

### Tasks

The LicensePlugin registers the two following tasks to facilitate this process:

- [validateLicense](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/ValidateLicenseTask.kt) -> Validate that 
a license header in present in a set of files.
- [ApplyLicenseTask](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/ApplyLicenseTask.kt) -> Applies a 
license header to a set of files.

## ReleasePlugin

Facilitates the procedures expected to be done during a release. 
While the `publishAllPublicationsToMavenRepository` task is used to actually *generate* the release 
artifact, this plugin registers tasks that should be ran *before* the release artifact is generated. 
Effectively "preparing" the project to be released.

### Tasks

The ReleasePlugin registers the three following tasks:

- [updateVersion](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/VersionBumpTask.kt) -> Updates the project 
version declared in the `gradle.properties` file to reflect the version generated by the release 
notes.
- [createNewApiFile](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/plugins/ReleasePlugin.kt) -> Creates a new 
`.api` file in the root `api` directory; aligning with the current state of the public api.
- [prepareRelease](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/plugins/ReleasePlugin.kt) -> Does everything 
needed to prepare a release; creates the release notes and runs the above tasks.

## MultiProjectPlugin

Works in conjunction with the `ReleasePlugin` to facilitate a release for all SDKs with changes.

### Tasks

The MultiProjectPlugin registers the three following tasks:

- [warnAboutApiChanges](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/CombineApiChangesTask.kt) -> Runs
the `warnAboutApiChanges` task from the `ChangelogPlugin` on each SDK, and then combines their
changes into a single file under the root project's build directory called `api_changes.md`.
- [makeReleaseNotes](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/tasks/CombineReleaseNotesTask.kt) -> Runs
the `makeReleaseNotes` task from the `ChangelogPlugin` on each SDK, and then combines their
release notes into a single file under the root project's build directory called `release_notes.md`.
- [prepareRelease](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/plugins/MultiProjectPlugin.kt) -> Does 
everything needed to prepare a release for all SDKs; creates the combined release notes and runs the 
above tasks (and also deletes the excess change files).
- [release](./src/main/java/com/google/gradle/plugins/ReleasePlugin.kt) Publishes the *current* 
artifacts to maven local and the configured maven repository. Should be ran *after* 
`prepareRelease`.
